Alai Hugh also proceeded and said bear
with me a little and I will show you
that there are yet words to speak on
God's behalf I will fetch my knowledge
from afar I will ascribe righteousness
to my maker for truly my words are not
false one who is perfect in knowledge is
with you behold god is my tea but
despises no one he is mighty in strength
of understanding he does not preserve
the life of the wicked but gives justice
to the oppressed he does not withdraw
his eyes from the righteous but they are
on the throne with kings for he has
seated them forever and they are exalted
and if they are bound in fetters held in
the cords of affliction then he tells
them their work and their transgressions
that they have acted defiantly he also
opens their ear to instruction and
commands that they turn from iniquity if
they obey and serve him they shall spend
their days in prosperity and their years
in pleasures but if they do not obey
they shall perish by the sword and they
shall die without knowledge but the
hypocrites in heart store up wrath they
do not cry for help when he binds them
they die in youth and their life ends
among the perverted persons he delivers
the poor in their affliction and opens
their ears in oppression indeed he would
have brought you out of dire distress
into a broad place where there is no
restraint and what is set on your table
would be full of richness but you are
filled with the judgment do the wicked
judgment and justice take hold of you
because there is wrath beware lest he
take you away with one blow for a large
ransom would not help you avoid it
will your riches or all the mighty
forces keep you from distress do not
desire the night when people are cut off
in their place take heed do not turn to
iniquity for you have chosen this rather
than affliction behold God is exalted by
his power who teaches like him who has
assigned him his way or who has said you
have done wrong
remember to magnify his work of which
men have some everyone has seen it man
looks on it from afar behold god is
great and we do not know him nor can the
number of his years be discovered for he
draws up drops of water which distill as
rain from the mists which the clouds
drop down and pour abundantly on man
indeed can anyone understand the
spreading of clouds the thunder from his
canopy look he scatters his light upon
it and covers the depths of the scene
for by these he judges the peoples he
gives food in abundance he covers his
hands with lightning and commands it to
strike his thunder declares it the
cattle also concerning the rising storm
you